#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{url} 
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "helvet" "default"
\font_typewriter "courier" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 0
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
MOZI.AI Diary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
26 Dec 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Downloads: `
\family typewriter
wget -r --no-parent https://mozi.ai/datasets/
\family default
` graps 998796 KBytes of uncompressed scm files.
 A tar.gz of the same is 45.5MBytes and a tar.bz2 is only 26.2 MBytes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The file 
\family typewriter
/home/ubuntu/datasets/smpdb_chebi_wname.scm
\family default
 loaded in 127 secs elapsed; 210 secs system time, with 900MB virt 610MB
 resident.
 Total of 972747 atoms, like so: 
\family typewriter
(cog-report-counts) $4 = ((ConceptNode .
 98388) (PredicateNode .
 1) (ListLink .
 49808) (MemberLink .
 773191) (EvaluationLink .
 49808) (MoleculeNode .
 1551))
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So zero seconds to run 
\family typewriter
(gene-go-annotation '("IGF1") "biological_process molecular_function cellular_co
mponent")
\family default
 and results ..
 pfft.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How about SQL?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(sql-create "postgres:///biosci")
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(sql-open "postgres:///biosci")
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(store-atomspace)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The store took 233 seconds (ouch) at about 4.3K atoms/sec.
 Close and re-open.
 Load takes 121 seconds elapsed (8.1K atoms/sec) so this is hardly any improvemen
t at all, compared to the file-load.
 Why? Where's the bottleneck? Apparently its postgres, which runs at 70%
 cpu while guile runs at 22%
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Effing A.
 OC_OMP is busted, issue opencog/cogutil#218 and opencog/atomspace#2460
 Fixing this causes guile to run at 780% CPU ...
 apparently thrashing ...
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
